Our world requires more automation to run efficiently and sustainably. The products and services that will be in demand are the products that compensate for our insufficiencies. The clear downside of this is that with every assist, the less we exercise our already weak facilities. The most significant invention in this automation is robots. Robots are now being used in almost every aspect of life. Robots are highly beneficial for humankind but there should be some constraints and margins. Robots are advantageous because of their accuracy, versatility and repeatability. On the other hand they also cause mass unemployment, can be disastrous and also damage human behavior.
When a manufacturer is shopping for a great robot for their production line, accuracy is one of the features they look at first. Accuracy is extremely important in the majority of robotic application, such as when it comes to welding and material removal. Versatile robots have rationalized the production process. Robots are able to adapt to new processes as well as changes in market demand. Their versatility ensures they take minimal time to be reprogrammed for the necessary tasks, whether it be picking and placing, welding or make surface changes. Repeatability is one characteristic of a robot, which is of remarkable importance. It is about repetition of same task in necessary time.
Scientists have warned that rapid paces in the development of artificial intelligence and robotics threatens the prospect of mass unemployment, affecting everyone from drivers to laborers. Robots are now replacing servants to engineers; impacting every aspect of life. The rise of robots can be devastating because there is a great probability that one day it could allow computer scientists to develop a robot with a brain that is even smarter than that of humans. Everyone is familiar with Sophia; a social humanoid robot. Adding artificial intelligence to our core could be much more troublesome. Especially as machines are made to look and act like us and to intimate themselves deeply into our lives, they may change how loving or friendly or kind we are—not just in our direct interactions with the machines in question, but in our interactions with one another. It is observed that machines hit men patience and gentleness.
But if we think broadly every issue with robotics is resolvable. Robots create unemployment but on the other hand they rise thousands of jobs. And we can also stop development of such robots which seems disastrous. Similarly, if we considers robots as programmed machines so they will not disturb our attitudes. As stated by Hawking: “Success in creating AI would be the biggest event in human history, unfortunately, it might also be the last, unless we learn how to avoid the risks.”
Taking all in consideration, it is clear that we cannot discontinue developments of robots because their benefits overweigh their dangers. But we need to yield precautions of the defined boundary
